# shitrental-rating-analysis
This is my first project on GitHub, completed as part of a data science course in my master's degree. In this project, I analyze the shitrental.csv dataset, which contains simulated customer reviews from Shitrental.org, provided by the course coordinator.

This study investigates factors influencing tenants’ perceived quality of rental properties listed on shitrentals.org, a platform where users can leave anonymous reviews and assign score ratings to the rental properties. Data from 1,000 properties located in 3 suburbs (Redfern, Newtown, Camperdown) of Sydney, Australia with diverse pricing structures were analyzed. All properties were unit/flat type and managed by either agency or private landlord. Ordinal regression models were conducted. The results revealed that the best predictors are weekly price, and specific issues (lease violations, poor condition, pest problems) mentioned in customer reviews. Weekly prices were found to have positive impacts on score ratings, suggesting tenants might view more expensive properties as higher quality. Conversely, negative complaints mentioning specific issues like lease violations, poor condition, pest problems were found to lower the score ratings. Among those specific issues, lease violations were found to be the most significant, followed by pest problems and poor conditions. By understanding the factors influencing those ratings, tenants can make more informed decisions by utilizing observed score ratings. Also, landlords can gain valuable insights to identify areas to improve and potentially increase rental income.
